{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red5\green99\blue193;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c1961\c38824\c75686;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1\qr\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Swan Garcia\
October 1\super st\nosupersub , 2018\
CS 2300\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1\qc\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Program 2: Linear Domination \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ulnone Repo:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa120\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/SkyAllure/SwanGarcia_2300.git"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs21 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 https://github.com/SkyAllure/SwanGarcia_2300.git}}
\b0\fs21 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b\fs24 \cf0 Documentation:\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri0\sl480\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 We were able to build our program from what we had originally designed in the first documentation. The small difference we changed were the table instead of lines we used dots that way it would connect the moves. Also, we had to use \'91x\'92 to draw a line, because C would have been too difficult to draw an actual line, because the program would have needed a way to implement a graphics function. Finally, the validMove method we had to try various implementations, because the horizontal lines threw an error if the slope denominator was equal to zero. So, we used the formula if both slopes equal each other than they are parallel and if they were not equal return invalid move. As previously mentioned other than minor changes the implementation and description of how each code block works is the same as describe in the previous documentation.  \
As far as grade distribution, I think that Anthony deserves 55% and I deserve the other 45%. Anthony, created the board game and the player\'92s turn. I came up with the way of implementing the line through a start to end point. We both worked on the valid move and checking if the lines are parallel. For checking and flipping the cells and the scoreboard I was the one that came up with the pseudocode. However, Anthony is the one that implemented them into the code and is the reason why I think he should earn 5% more. \
}